 We study electron loss from a hydrogen-like highly charged ion by the impact
of equivelocity electrons and protons and also in collisions with hydrogen and
helium. The collision velocity $v$ varies between $v_{min}$ and $v_{max}$,
where $v_{min}$ and $v_{max}$ correspond to the energy threshold
$\varepsilon_{th}$ for electron loss in collisions with a free electron and to
$\approx 5 \, \varepsilon_{th}$, respectively. Our results show that in this
range of $v$: i) compared to equivelocity electrons protons are more effective
in inducing electron loss (due to a substantially larger volume of the
effectively available final-state electron momentum space), ii) the relative
(compared to protons) effectiveness of electron projectiles grows with increase
in the atomic number of a highly charged ion, iii) a substantial part of the
volume of the final-state-electron momentum space, kinematically available in
collisions with electrons, is weaker populated in collisions with protons than
with electrons, iv) even when the total loss cross sections in collisions with
electrons and protons become already equal the spectra of the outgoing
electrons still remain quite different in almost the entire volume of the
final-state-electron momentum space. The points i) and iii), in particular,
mean that in collisions with hydrogen target the contributions to the loss
process from the interactions with the nucleus and the electron(s) of the atom
would be to a large extent separated in the final-state-electron momentum
space.
