 We discuss galvanomagnetic and thermomagnetic effects in disordered
electronic systems focusing on intermediate temperatures, for which
electron-electron scattering and electron-impurity scattering occur at similar
rates, while phonon-related effects can be neglected. In particular, we explore
how electric and thermal currents driven either by an electric field or by a
temperature gradient are affected by the interplay of momentum-dependent
electron-impurity scattering, electron-electron scattering, and the presence of
a magnetic field. We find that the electric resistance, the Seebeck coefficient
and the Nernst coefficient are particularly sensitive to the momentum
dependence of the electron-impurity scattering rate at intermediate
temperatures. A sufficiently strong momentum dependence of the
electron-impurity scattering rate can induce a sign change of the Seebeck
coefficient. This sign change can be suppressed by a perpendicular magnetic
field. The temperature and magnetic field dependence of the Seebeck coefficient
can be used for measuring the magnitude of the electron-impurity and
electron-electron scattering rates. The Nernst coefficient vanishes for
momentum-independent electron-impurity scattering, but displays a maximum at
finite temperatures once the momentum dependence is accounted for. By contrast,
the Hall coefficient and the Righi-Leduc coefficient display only a weak
dependence on the momentum dependence of the electron-impurity scattering at
intermediate temperatures.
